* They cause problems for things like "grep" and other basic unix utilities

*  I don't want to see patches that make the kernel reading
experience worse for me and likely for the vast majority of people
	* My 200x50

* If you or Christoph have 80 character lines, you'll get possibly ugly
wrapped output. Tough. That's _your_ choice. Your hardware limitations
shouldn't be a pain for the rest of us.

* My monitor is not only a lot wider than it is tall, my fonts are universally
narrower than they are tall. Long lines are natural.
	* Not sure what Linux runs
	* Programming fonts especially

* When I tile my terminal windows on my display, I can have 6 terminals
visible at one time, and that's because I have them three wide.
	* Godly vision
	* Ultrawide

* Have you looked at "ps ax" output lately? Or used "top"? Or done "git
diff --stat" or any number of things where it turns out that 80x25 is
really really limiting, and is simply NO LONGER RELEVANT to most of
us.
	* Works fine for sparse UI - lf
	* But a lot don't work well - newsboat

* I find it completely irrelevant if
somebody says that their kernel compile takes 10 hours because they
are doing kernel development on a Raspberry PI with 4GB of RAM.

* People with restrictive hardware shouldn't make it more inconvenient
for people who have better resources. Yes, we'll accommodate things to
within reasonable limits.
	* OS shouldn't use 10GB
	* 4 core
	* Your browser shouldn't use 10GB

* People commonly used 132-column terminals even back in the 80's

* Yes, local iteration variables are still called 'i', because more
context just isn't helpful for some anonymous counter.
	* Sometimes can add context

* But still - it's entirely reasonable to have variable names that are
10-15 characters and it makes the code more legible. Writing things
out instead of using abbreviations etc.
	* St example
