* Anyone who says free software and open source software are easy
	* 1 Is lying
	* 2 Didn't understand it like I didn't
	* 3 So involved that they forget normal people exist

* Open source doesn't mean open source
	* What does that mean
	* Open source the english meaning
		* Source is open, access to source code

	* Open source definition usually used is OSI
	* 1. Free Redistribution
		* Share or include in other software
	* 2. Source Code
	* 3. Derived Works
	* 4. Integrity of The Author's Source Code
		* Can limit modified distribution if allowing patch files
		* May require derived works to carry a different name or version number
		* Must explicitly permit distribution of software built from modified source code.
	* 5. No Discrimination Against Persons or Groups
	* 6. No Discrimination Against Fields of Endeavor
	* 7. Distribution of License
	* 8. License Must Not Be Specific to a Product
	* 9. License Must Not Restrict Other Software
	* 10. License Must Be Technology-Neutral

* Free Software definition
	* The freedom to run the program as you wish, for any purpose (freedom 0).
	* The freedom to study how the program works, and change it so it does your computing as you wish (freedom 1). Access to the source code is a precondition for this.
		* Obfuscated “source code” is not real source code and does not count as source code.
	* The freedom to redistribute copies so you can help others (freedom 2).
	* The freedom to distribute copies of your modified versions to others (freedom 3). By doing this you can give the whole community a chance to benefit from your changes.
	Access to the source code is a precondition for this.
		* Free license may also permit other ways of releasing them
			* Does not have to be Copyleft
				* Basically can't add restrictions to distributed copies
				* Preferred no required

* So how do they differ
	* Most if not all free software is open source
	* Even though Android is licenced under the GPL
		* Making it both Free and Open
		* Blocks you from installing certain apps or new rom
			* Not free
	* Copyleft
		* Can lead to no free software
			* Visual studio code
			* Executable adds telemetry
			* Ok under open source

	* Criteria for open source are concerned solely with the licensing of the source code.

* Which is better
	* Depending on who you are
		* Free software
		* Users less
		* Business more

* Very long history
	* Didn't cover everything
	* Leave some resources down below
